---
layout: post
title:  "TinyWear Part 2"
date:   2015-10-02 11:58:37
categories: android wearable
---
#TinyVerse Android Wearable Project
This is an application that runs on an Android handheld and sends notifications to a Wearable. The notifications are a random Bible reference and verse from the tinyverse.herokuapp.com website. On the wearable, the notification presents a reply that allows the user to give a voice response as to whether or not they want to read the commentary for the verse. If they respond yes, the app sends the commentary as another notification.

I have divided this tutorial into serveral parts. 

## Part Two

### Coding the test notification and reply.

In this section we will add all of the code necessary to test our app. 
Start by opening MainActivity.java  

Add the following public variables right below the class
    declaration, before the onCreate function.
{% highlight java %}  

static final String EXTRA_VOICE_REPLY = "extra_voice_reply"
RemoteInput remoteInput
{% endhighlight%}  
1.  Add the following *inside* the onCreate function, right after
    super.onCreate

Create a string called replylabel with
getResources.getString(R.string.reply\_label)

Create a string array called replyChoices with
getResources.getStringArray(R.array.reply\_choices)

1.  Set the value of remoteInput by
    calling RemoteInput.Builder(EXTRA\_VOICE\_REPLY) with the following
    methods:

> .setLabel(replyLabel)
>
> .setChoices(replyChoices)
>
> .build()

1.  Create a new public void method called sendNotification(View view).
    This is the onClick handler for our “send notification” button.

2.  Set an int notificationID to an integer. This ID is used if we want
    to reference back to the specific notification we will be creating.

3.  We are going to create the following objects:

    1.  An Intent (The ReplyActivity that will handle the response from
        the notification)

    2.  A PendingIntent (The callback handler from the
        notification response)

    3.  An Action (containing the RemoteInput)

    4.  A Notification with a wearable extension (the Action we created)

4.  Finally, we will issue the notification with the
    Notification Manager.

5.  Open the ReplyActivity.java code.

6.  Add the same constant we created in the MainActivity to reference
    the voice reply

> **public static final** String ***EXTRA\_VOICE\_REPLY*** =
> **"extra\_voice\_reply"**;

1.  In the ReplyActivity.java code, we will create a method called
    getMessageText that takes an intent and returns a
    character sequence.

In the getMessageText code, Create a Bundle called remoteInput that gets
the results from the intent.

RemoteInput.*getResultsFromIntent*(intent)

1.  Return the remoteInput.getCharSequence(EXTRA\_VOICE\_REPLY)


